
===================
Wireless Interfaces
===================


BlueTooth
=========

Bluetooth uses the same 2.4Ghz unlicensed band as most Wi-Fi routers.
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) is also known as Bluetooth 4.0 and Bluetooth Smart.
It's called low-energy because it basically is. BLE devices can run for more
than 2 years with a single coin battery depending on the signal strenth and
how frequently they broadcast information.

Apple iBeacon uses Bluetooth Low Energy to create 'beacon' around regions so
apps can be alerted when users enter them. The hardware beacons are a small
wireless sensors placed inside any physical space that transmit data to your
iPhone using Bluetooth Low Energy. iOS devices can also be iBeacons. Whilst
Google have focussed on Near Field Communication (NFC), Android V4.3 has
native support for Bluetooth Low Energy.


More information
----------------

* http://www.dreamgreenhouse.com/projects/2014/ibeacon/index.php
* http://www.intorobotics.com/pick-right-bluetooth-module-diy-arduino-project/


Z-Wave
======

Z-Wave is a widely adopted, proprietary standard for wireless home control and
automation. It enables an affordable set of Z-Wave products, which
interoperate with each other regardless of brand. Each Z-Wave certified
product has to pass a stringent conformance tests to assure it meets the
Z-Wave standard for operation and interoperability with other Z-Wave certified
devices and controls.

Z-Wave enabled products offer reliable, confirmable, 2-way control
communications throughout the home, without the need for any new wiring or any
complex programming. It has been designed for residential and light commercial
applications such as lighting control, thermostats, garage doors and access
control, security systems, blinds and curtains, Internet gateways, PC
applications, media centre integration, and universal remote controls.

The Z-Wave Alliance is a consortium of independent manufacturers who have
agreed to build wireless home control products based on the Zensys Z-Wave
standard.

Z-Wave uses mesh networking technology to route 2-way command signals from one
Z-Wave device to another, around any obstacles or radio dead spots that might
occur throughout the home. The result is assured, reliable whole-house
coverage, with confirmation messages. As more devices are added, the mesh
network becomes more robust. There is a limit to the number of devices that
can form a single mesh network but it is over 200. European Z-Wave devices
operate at 868.42MHz making them incompatible with their US equivalents
operating at 908.42MHz

There is a lot of open source activity underway that uses Z-Wave. The Open
Z-wave group have a goal to create free software to interface with all
available Z-Wave PC controllers, allowing anyone to create applications that
manipulate and respond to devices on a Z-Wave network, without requiring in-
depth knowledge of the Z-Wave protocol or the purchase of expensive
development kits.

More information
----------------

* http://www.z-wave.com/
* http://z-wavealliance.org/
* http://groups.google.com/group/openzwave
* http://www.dreamgreenhouse.com/designs/automation/zwave/index.php


ZigBee
======

ZigBee is more of a standard (802.15) than a brand name, which is why you
won't find much when searching for 'Zigbee products'. There is an entire
framework for development with the ZigBee Alliance, ZigBee PRO standard and
ZigBee Home Automation application profile. The idea is that by making life
simpler for product developers we will see a variety of competing brands
offering every product the consumer could imagine. It has taken many years for
the ZigBee concept to ratify itself into a standard.

One of the main companies using ZigBee technology is Control4, who sell a
variety of lighting switches and controls. The main issue with their product
set is that they are primarily sold through installers and not for a DIY
solutions.

One of the key advantages of ZigBee is its very low power consumption, which
made it ideal for battery operated devices and locations where wiring would be
difficult. Another advantage is that ZigBee is an open standard, so in theory
there is no dependency on a single manufacturer or supplier.

More information
----------------

* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZigBee
* http://www.control4.com/


Wi-Fi
=====


IQRF
====

