
============
WiFi Devices
============


ESP8266 (NodeMCU)
=================

The ESP8266 is a low-cost Wi-Fi chip with full TCP/IP stack and MCU
(microcontroller unit) capability produced by Shanghai-based Chinese
manufacturer, Espressif Systems.

The chip first came to the attention of western makers in August 2014 with the
ESP-01 module, made by a third-party manufacturer, AI-Thinker. This small
module allows microcontrollers to connect to a Wi-Fi network and make simple
TCP/IP connections using Hayes-style commands. However, at the time there was
almost no English-language documentation on the chip and the commands it
accepted. The very low price and the fact that there were very few external
components on the module which suggested that it could eventually be very
inexpensive in volume, attracted many hackers to explore the module, chip, and
the software on it, as well as to translate the Chinese documentation.

The ESP8285 is an ESP8266 with 1 MiB of built-in flash, allowing for single-
chip devices capable of connecting to Wi-Fi.

NodeMCU is an open source IoT platform. It includes firmware which runs on the
ESP8266 Wi-Fi SoC from Espressif Systems, and hardware which is based on the
ESP-12 module.

.. figure:: /_static/img/device/nodemcu.jpg
   :width: 50 %
   :align: center

Available pins
--------------

.. image :: /_static/img/pinout/nodemcu.jpg
   :width: 50 %
   :align: center


ESP32
=====

ESP32 is a series of low cost, low power system on a chip microcontrollers
with integrated Wi-Fi & dual-mode Bluetooth. The ESP32 series employs a
Tensilica Xtensa LX6 microprocessor in both dual-core and single-core
variations. ESP32 is created and developed by Espressif Systems, a Shanghai-
based Chinese company, and is manufactured by TSMC using their 40 nm
process. It is a successor to the ESP8266 microcontroller.

SP32 can perform as a complete standalone system or as a slave device to a
host MCU, reducing communication stack overhead on the main application
processor. ESP32 can interface with other systems to provide Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth functionality through the SPI / SDIO or I2C / UART interfaces.

.. figure:: /_static/img/device/esp32.jpg
   :width: 50 %
   :align: center

Available pins
--------------

.. image :: /_static/img/pinout/esp32.png
   :width: 50 %
   :align: center

More information
----------------

* https://espressif.com/en/products/hardware/esp32/overview


Onion Omega2
============

Omega2 is a personal single-board computer created by a startup company called
Onion, released on Kickstarter. It is advertised as "the world's smallest
Linux Server" The system combines the tiny form factor and power- efficiency
of the Arduino, with the power and flexibilities of the Raspberry Pi and is
identified with FCC Identifier 2AJVP-OMEGA2. It runs Linux kernel based
lightweight operating system for embedded system called OpenWRT.

.. figure:: /_static/img/device/onion.png
   :width: 50 %
   :align: center

Available pins
--------------

.. image :: /_static/img/pinout/omega2.jpg
   :width: 50 %
   :align: center

More information
----------------

* https://docs.onion.io/omega2-docs/
